Fleet Server on kubernetes document proposal (#1518)
elastic/ingest-docs: docs/en/ingest-management/fleet/add-fleet-server-kubernetes.asciidoc

[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes]]
= Deploy Fleet Server on Kubernetes

[NOTE]
====

> For ECK users, if your {stack} is orchestrated by ECK, we recommend to orchestrate the {fleet-server} through the operator. That simplifies the process as all needed resources will be configured by ECK.

Reviewer: I understand what you're going for, but the start of this sentence is repetitive. I would remove the "For ECK users" part.

Author: Sure! That part together with the `certain knowledge required` was a bit of a draft / placeholder, and I had forgotten to review and update it. I'll do it now.

Author: I have updated it, let me know your thoughs @bmorelli25 :)

> +

Reviewer: It's a bit confusing, but you don't need a `+` here. This actually renders in the output in this instance.

Refer to {eck-ref}/k8s-elastic-agent.html[Run {agent} on ECK] for more information.
====

[IMPORTANT]
====

> This guide assumes certain knowledge about deploying applications on Kubernetes.

Reviewer: This guide assumes familiarity with deploying applications on Kubernetes. ?

"Certain knowledge" is interesting. I wonder what David thinks 👀

Author: Sorry I hadn't finished that sentence... I left only that as a placeholder to complete it at a later stage :)

Author: Text updated, let me know how it looks now, please @bmorelli25 :)

Reviewer: much better!

====

To use {fleet} for central management, a <<fleet-server,{fleet-server}>> must
be running and accessible to your hosts.

You can deploy {fleet-server} on Kubernetes and manage it yourself.
In this deployment model, you are responsible for high-availability,
fault-tolerance, and lifecycle management of the {fleet-server}.

To deploy a {fleet-server} on Kubernetes and register it into Fleet you will need the following details:

* The *Policy ID* of a Fleet policy configured with the {fleet-server} integration.

> * A *Service token*, that you can generate following the <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-preparations>> section, or manually using the {ref}/service-tokens-command.html[elasticsearch-service-tokens] command.

Reviewer: I would consider removing the links from this bullet point. Why? You don't link out in any of the other bullet points—instead, you use this section to explain what the user needs and why. This bullet point is a bit different; you explain that a service token is needed, but instead of explaining why or what it is, you mention the two methods of creating one. I think it would be better to say something like:

* A *Service token*, used to authenticate Fleet Server with Elasticsearch.

You can then explain the two methods of generating a token in the section below.

Author: makes sense! and it was redundant actually. thanks!

* For outgoing traffic:
** The *{es} endpoint URL* where the {fleet-server} should connect to, configured also in the {es} output associated to the policy.
** When a private or intermediate Certificate Authority (CA) is used to sign the {es} certificate, the *{es} CA file* or the *CA fingerprint*, configured also in the {es} output associated to the policy.
* For incoming connections:
** A *TLS/SSL certificate and key* for the {fleet-server} HTTPS endpoint, used to encrypt the traffic from the {agent}s. This certificate has to be valid for the *{fleet-server} Host URL* that {agent}s use when connecting to the {fleet-server}.

> * Extra TLS/SSL certificates and configuration parameters in case of requiring <<mutual-tls,mutual TLS>> (not covered on this document).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Extra TLS/SSL certificates and configuration parameters in case of requiring <<mutual-tls,mutual TLS>> (not covered in this document).
```

This document walks you through the complete setup process, organized into the following sections:

* <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-compatibility,Compatibility requirements>>
* <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-cert-prereq>>
* <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-preparations>>

> * <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-install>>

Reviewer: Love it!

Author: thanks!! :)

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-compatibility]]

> = Compatibility

Reviewer 2: I see that the document structure is like this:

```
= Deploy Fleet Server on Kubernetes

= Compatibility

= Prerequisites
== {fleet-server} and SSL/TLS certificates considerations
=== [{agent} → {fleet-server}] inbound traffic flow
=== [{fleet-server} → {es} output] outbound traffic flow
== Default port assignments
== Fleet preparations
== Fleet Server installation
=== Installation Steps

= Troubleshooting
== Common Problems

= Next steps
```

So all of the preparations and install steps are part of the "Prerequisites" section in the hierarchy.

I think what you want is probably more like this:

```
= Deploy Fleet Server on Kubernetes

== Compatibility

== Prerequisites
=== {fleet-server} and SSL/TLS certificates considerations
==== [{agent} → {fleet-server}] inbound traffic flow
==== [{fleet-server} → {es} output] outbound traffic flow
=== Default port assignments

== Fleet preparations

== Fleet Server installation
=== Installation Steps

== Troubleshooting
=== Common Problems

== Next steps
```

Also, I would include all of the second level items (Compatibility, Prerequisites, Fleet preparations, Fleet Server installation, Troubleshooting, Next steps) in the list of sections at line 36-39. It's nice that you put that list in because it'll help users to understand the document structure.

Author: Thanks!
I've left it as:
```
= Deploy Fleet Server on Kubernetes
== Compatibility
== Prerequisites
=== {fleet-server} and SSL/TLS certificates considerations
==== [{agent} → {fleet-server}] inbound traffic flow
==== [{fleet-server} → {es} output] outbound traffic flow
=== Default port assignments
== Add {fleet-server}
=== Fleet preparations
=== Fleet Server installation
==== Installation overview
==== Installation Steps
== Troubleshoot {fleet-server}
=== Common Problems
=== Other issues
== Next steps
```

And updated the lines 36-39.
Let me know your thoughts @kilfoyle

Reviewer 2: Nice! I think it's perfect now.

{fleet-server} is compatible with the following Elastic products:

* {stack} 7.13 or later.

> ** For version compatibility: {es} >= {fleet-server} >= {agent} (except for
> bugfix releases)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** For version compatibility: {es} >= {fleet-server} >= {agent} (except for
bugfix releases).
```

Author: The compatibility section was copied from the other docs about fleet server installation, so we should probably fix that everywhere.

Reviewer 2: Here's a PR to make the same change in the other places in the Fleet & Agent docs: https://github.com/elastic/ingest-docs/pull/1537

> ** For version compatibility: {es} >= {fleet-server} >= {agent} (except for
> bugfix releases)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** For version compatibility, {es} must be at the same or a later version than {fleet-server}, and {fleet-server} needs to be at the same or a later version than {agent} (not including patch releases). 
```
Personally, I'd probably write this out rather than use the `>=` signs, but I think either one is just fine.

Author: Totally agreed. As mentioned in the previous comment, the compatibility section was copied from the other docs about fleet server installation, so we should probably fix that everywhere.

Reviewer 2: I can make that change in the other docs.

** {kib} should be on the same minor version as {es}.

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-prereq]]
= Prerequisites

> Before deploying the {fleet-server}, you need to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before deploying {fleet-server}, you need to:
```

* Prepare the SSL/TLS configuration, server certificate, <<fleet-server-hosts-setting>>, and needed Certificate Authorities (CAs).
* Ensure components have access to the ports needed for communication.

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-cert-prereq]]
== {fleet-server} and SSL/TLS certificates considerations

This section shows the minimum requirements in terms of Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificates for the {fleet-server}, assuming no mutual TLS (mTLS) is needed. Refer to <<tls-overview>> and <<mutual-tls>> for more information about the configuration needs of both approaches.

> There are two main and differentiated traffic flows associated with the {fleet-server}, where each of them has different TLS needs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two main traffic flows available for {fleet-server}, each with different TLS needs:
```
Just trying to simplify it a bit. :-)

Author: What about `There are two main traffic flows related (to or with) {fleet-server}, each with different TLS needs`?

The word `available` for traffic flows doesn't sound accurate to me, as a traffic flow is not something available or unavailable, but more something that exists and happens or doesn't exist. What do you think? :)

Author: updated already, let me know your thoughts. I finally wrote:

`There are two main traffic flows for {fleet-server}, each with different TLS requirements:`

Reviewer 2: Looks good. Thanks!

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-cert-inbound]]

> === {agent} → {fleet-server} inbound traffic flow

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== [{agent} → {fleet-server}] inbound traffic flow
```

> In this flow the {fleet-server} acts as the server and the {agent} acts as the client, therefore the {fleet-server} requires a TLS certificate and key, and the {agent} will need to trust the CA certificate used to sign the {fleet-server} certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this flow {fleet-server} acts as the server and the {agent} acts as the client. Therefore, {fleet-server} requires a TLS certificate and key, and {agent} will need to trust the CA certificate used to sign the {fleet-server} certificate.
```
I think this reads better as two sentences. Also, we usually say "Fleet Server" rather than "a/the Fleet Server".

[NOTE]
====
The {fleet-server} certificate is not required when installing the server using the *Quick start* mode, but should always be used for *production* deployments. In *Quick start* mode, the {fleet-server} uses a self-signed certificate and the {agent}s have to be enrolled with the `--insecure` option.
====

If your organization already uses the {stack}, you may already have a CA certificate that could be used to generate the new cert for the {fleet-server}. If you do not have a CA certificate, you can read more about generating a CA and a server certificate for the {fleet-server} in <<generate-fleet-server-certs>>.

You also need to know and plan in advance the <<fleet-server-hosts-setting, hostname / URL>> that the {agent} clients will use to access the {fleet-server}, because the *hostname* part of the URL needs to be included in the server certificate as an `x.509 Subject Alternative Name (SAN)`. If you plan to make your {fleet-server} accessible through multiple *hostnames* or *FQDNS*, add all of them to the server certificate.

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-cert-outbound]]

> === {fleet-server} → {es} output outbound traffic flow

Reviewer: I like this use of ➡️s

Author: thank @dedemorton about the `->`s :-D

> === {fleet-server} → {es} output outbound traffic flow

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== [{fleet-server} → {es} output] outbound traffic flow
```

> In this flow the {fleet-server} acts as the client and {es} acts as the HTTPS server. For the communication to succeed, the {fleet-server} needs to trust the CA certificate used to sign the {es} certificate. If your {es} uses certificates signed by a corporate CA or multiple intermediate CAs you will need to use them during the {fleet-server} setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this flow, {fleet-server} acts as the client and {es} acts as the HTTPS server. For the communication to succeed, {fleet-server} needs to trust the CA certificate used to sign the {es} certificate. If your {es} cluster uses certificates signed by a corporate CA or multiple intermediate CAs you will need to use them during the {fleet-server} setup.
```

[NOTE]
====

> If your {es} cluster is on Elastic Cloud or if it uses a certificate signed by a public and known CA you won't need the {es} CA during the setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your {es} cluster is on Elastic Cloud or if it uses a certificate signed by a public and known CA, you won't need the {es} CA during the setup.
```

====

In summary, you need:

* A *server certificate and key*, valid for the {fleet-server} URL. The CA used to sign this certificate will be needed by the {agent} clients, not by the {fleet-server} itself.

> * The *CA certificate* (or certificates) associated to your {es} cluster, except if you are sure your {es} certificate is fully trusted publicly.

Author: @bmorelli25 : do you think that `summary` is a bit redundant? In theory it's a summary of both traffic flows needs, and in the introduction we also mention both items (cert+key and CA cert of ES).

Reviewer: Hmmm. Yes and no. I can see a case for keeping this and for removing it. I don't feel strongly either way.

Author: Ok! we will keep this for the moment and review at a later stage ;)

| {agent} → {es} | 9200
| {agent} → Logstash | 5044
| {agent} → {kib} (optional, for {fleet} setup) | 5601
|===

In Kubernetes environments, you can adapt these ports without modifying the listening ports of the {fleet-server} or other applications, as traffic is managed by Kubernetes `Services`. This guide includes an example where {agent}s connect to the {fleet-server} through port `443` instead of the default `8220`.

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-add-server]]
= Add {fleet-server}

A {fleet-server} is an {agent} that is enrolled in a {fleet-server} policy. The policy configures the agent to operate in a special mode to serve as a Fleet Server in your deployment.

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-preparations]]
== Fleet preparations

[TIP]
====
If you already have a Fleet policy with the {fleet-server} integration, you know its ID, and you know how to generate an {ref}/service-tokens-command.html[{es} service token] for the {fleet-server}, skip directly to <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-install>>.

Also note that the `service token` required by the {fleet-server} is different from the `enrollment tokens` used by {agent}s to enroll to Fleet.
====

> . In {kib}, open *Fleet → Settings* and ensure the *Elasticsearch output* that will be used by the {fleet-server} policy is correctly configured, paying special attention to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In {kib}, open *Fleet → Settings* and ensure the *Elasticsearch output* that will be used by the {fleet-server} policy is correctly configured, paying special attention that:
```

+
** The *hosts* field includes a valid URL that will be reachable by the {fleet-server} Pod.

> ** If your {es} cluster uses certificates signed by private or intermediate CAs not publicly trusted, ensure to add the trust information in the *Elasticsearch CA trusted fingerprint* field or in the *advanced configuration* section through `ssl.certificate_authorities` setting. For more details refer to https://elastic.co/guide/en/fleet/current/secure-connections.html#_encrypt_traffic_between_elastic_agents_fleet_server_and_elasticsearch[Secure Connections] documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** If your {es} cluster uses certificates signed by private or intermediate CAs not publicly trusted, you have added the trust information in the *Elasticsearch CA trusted fingerprint* field or in the *advanced configuration* section through the `ssl.certificate_authorities` setting. For details, refer to the https://elastic.co/guide/en/fleet/current/secure-connections.html#_encrypt_traffic_between_elastic_agents_fleet_server_and_elasticsearch[Secure Connections] documentation.
```

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
This validation step is critical. The {es} host URL and CA information has to be added *in both the {es} output and the environment variables* provided to the {fleet-server} in a later step. It's a common mistake to ignore the output settings believing that the environment variables will prevail, when the environment variables are only used during the bootstrap of the {fleet-server}.

> +

Reviewer: Another `+` that isn't needed 😄

> This validation step is critical. The {es} host URL and CA information has to be added *in both the {es} output and the environment variables* provided to the {fleet-server} in a later step. It's a common mistake to ignore the output settings believing that the environment variables will prevail, when the environment variables are only used during the bootstrap of the {fleet-server}.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "in a later step" should be removed? It sounds to me a bit like the reader will add these configs as part of steps described later on in the document.

Author: done! :)

> Consider the creation of a dedicated *{es} output* for the {fleet-server} if the URL needed by the {fleet-server} to reach {es} differs from the URL needed by other clients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the URL that {fleet-server} will use to access {es} is different from the {es} URL used by other clients, you may want to create a dedicated *{es} output* for {fleet-server}.
```
I think I'd reverse the order to make it a bit more clear, but the original is okay too.

====

> . From *Fleet → Agent Policies*, select *Create agent policy* to create a policy for the {fleet-server}:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Go to *Fleet → Agent Policies* and select *Create agent policy* to create a policy for the {fleet-server}:
```

+

> ** Set a *name* to the policy, for example `Fleet Server Policy Kubernetes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Set a *name* for the policy, for example `Fleet Server Policy Kubernetes`.
```

> ** Do *not* select the option *collect system logs and metrics*. This option would add the `system integration` to the policy, and considering the {fleet-server} will run as a Kubernetes Pod without any visibility to the Kubernetes node, there won't be any real system to monitor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Do *not* select the option *Collect system logs and metrics*. This option adds the System integration to the {agent} policy. Since {fleet-server} will run as a Kubernetes Pod without any visibility to the Kubernetes node, there won't be a system to monitor.
```

Author: I like the change proposal, thanks!

I've one concern about the `Since` word, as I learned short time ago through another review that we should use `because` instead.

The reason is that `since` should only be used when it really means `since` a given period of time or it expresses a reason in the past.

But not totally sure... @bmorelli25 , what do you think here? :)

Reviewer 2: Ah, indeed! "Because" would certainly be better than "Since", *because* the latter is ambiguous. Thanks for catching that Edu!

> ** Select the **output** that the {fleet-server} needs to use to contact {es}. This should be the output that was verified in the previous step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Select the **output** that the {fleet-server} needs to use to contact {es}. This should be the output that you verified in the previous step.
```

Reviewer 2: The convention for docs is that any field name marked in bold should exactly match the field name in the UI. However, I don't see one named "output". Should it be `**Output for integrations**`?

![Screenshot 2024-12-11 at 2 51 12 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4800ce4a-1d27-4a75-9c35-dee951e0381c)

> ** If desired, add an **inactive agent unenrollment timeout** to automatically unenroll and invalidate API Keys after being inactive. This is useful on Kubernetes environments as the {fleet-server} Pods are ephemeral, and after restarts new {agent}s will appear in Fleet UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Optionally, you can add an **inactive agent unenrollment timeout** to automatically unenroll and invalidate API keys after they become inactive. This is useful on Kubernetes environments as the {fleet-server} Pods are ephemeral, and after restarts new {agent}s will appear in Fleet UI.
```

. Open the created policy, and from the *Integrations* tab select *Add integration*:
+

> ** Search and select the Fleet Server integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Search for and select the {fleet-server} integration.
```

> ** Select *Add Fleet Server* to add the integration to the policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Select *Add Fleet Server* to add the integration to the {agent} policy.
```
I usually specify "{agent} policy" since there are also integration policies.

+
At this point you can configure the integration settings per <<fleet-server-scalability>>.

> ** When done, select on *Save and continue*. Do not add any {agent} at this stage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** When done, select *Save and continue*. Do not add any {agent} at this stage.
```

> . Open the configured policy, which now includes the Fleet Server integration, and select *Actions* → *Add Fleet Server*. In the next dialog:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Open the configured policy, which now includes the {fleet-server} integration, and select *Actions* → *Add Fleet Server*. In the next dialog:
```

Author: Thanks! I'll review all attributes before merging, as I might have missed more :)

+

> * Confirm that the *policy for Fleet Server* is properly selected.

Reviewer 2: Just checking: Is `policy for Fleet Server` the string exactly as it appears in the UI?

Author: Yes, it appears exactly like that, as part of the sentence Select a policy for the Fleet Server:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a099c89b-620c-4568-8542-a3dddca02ea8)

I'm opened to suggestions here :)

Reviewer 2: Thanks for confirming. It matches the UI so I think your sentence is perfect as is.

* *Choose a deployment mode for security*:
** If you select *Quick start*, the {fleet-server} generates a `self-signed` TLS certificate, and subsequent agents should be enrolled using the `--insecure` flag.
** If you select *Production*, you provide a certificate and key to the {fleet-server} during the deployment, and subsequent agents will need to trust the certificate's CA.
* Add your *Fleet Server Host* information:

> ** This will be the URL used by the clients ({agent}s) to connect to the {fleet-server}. In *Production* mode, the {fleet-server} certificate must include the hostname part of the URL as an `x509 SAN`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** This is the URL used by the clients ({agent}s) to connect to the {fleet-server}. In *Production* mode, the {fleet-server} certificate must include the hostname part of the URL as an `x509 SAN`.
```

** On Kubernetes environments this could be the name of the `Kubernetes service` or reverse proxy that exposes the {fleet-server} Pods.

> ** This setting is not really used by the {fleet-server} itself, so don't worry much about it at this stage because you will be able to change it later on under *Fleet → Settings*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** This setting is not used by the {fleet-server} itself, so don't worry about it at this stage because you will be able to change it later on under *Fleet → Settings*.
```
I'd omit `really` if the setting isn't used by Fleet Server.

* Select **generate service token** to create a token for the {fleet-server}.
* From *Install Fleet Server to a centralized host → Linux*, take note of the values of the following settings that will be needed for the {fleet-server} installation:

> ** Service token(under `--fleet-server-service-token` parameter).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Service token (under `--fleet-server-service-token` parameter).
```

> ** Service token(under `--fleet-server-service-token` parameter).
> ** Fleet policy ID (under `--fleet-server-policy` parameter).
> ** {es} URL (under `--fleet-server-es` parameter).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Service token (below the `--fleet-server-service-token` parameter).
** Fleet policy ID (below the `--fleet-server-policy` parameter).
** {es} URL (below the `--fleet-server-es` parameter).
```
To me, `below` sounds a bit better than `under`, but I'm not sure why. I also added a missing space.

Author: what about `specified by` or `provided after`? :)

Reviewer 2: I really like `specified by`.

> . Keep {kib} browser window opened and continue with the <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-install>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Keep the {kib} browser window open and continue with the <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-install>>.
```

+

> When {fleet-server} installation succeeds, the *Confirm Connection* dialog will show *Connected*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the {fleet-server} installation has succeeded, the *Confirm Connection* UI will show *Connected*.
```

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-install]]
== Fleet Server installation

> To deploy {fleet-server} on Kubernetes and register it into Fleet you need the following details:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To deploy {fleet-server} on Kubernetes and enroll it into {fleet} you need the following details:
```
We use "enroll" for Agents, so I think for Fleet Server that term might be better than "register".

Author: This is a very good point.

I didn't want to use the word `enroll` on purpose, to avoid users mixing the enrollment token needed by Elastic Agents to enroll into Fleet (the normal Elastic Agents `enroll` to Fleet via the Fleet Server), with the `service token` that the Fleet Server needs to join Fleet.

I don't know what exactly the Fleet Server does when joining Fleet with the service token, I don't know if it's technically similar to an enrollment, probably yes :)

I've reviewed other Fleet Server install docs and clearly we consider it `enrolled` to Fleet, so I'm applying the change. Thanks a lot for pointing this out!

> * *Policy ID* of the Fleet policy configured with the {fleet-server} integration.

Reviewer 2: Should it be "Fleet Server policy" rather than "Fleet policy"?
Also, either way we should use an attribute, either `{fleet}` or `{fleet-server}`.

Author: I'll review the attributes, thanks!

In this case IMO it should be a Fleet policy (configured with Fleet Server integration).
Fleet Server policy makes total sense conceptually speaking, but there's no such a thing, you can name a policy `Fleet Server policy` or `fleet-server-policy` but it's still a policy.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, this is my mistake. I was getting my terms confused. I think Fleet policy is okay as you've explained.

* *Service token*, that you can generate following the <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-preparations>> or manually using the {ref}/service-tokens-command.html[{es}-service-tokens command].
* *{es} endpoint URL*, configured also in the {es} output associated to the policy.

> * *{es} CA certificate file*, configured also in the {es} output associated to the policy.

Reviewer 2: I'd probably remove `also` in these lines. Without it, it reads to me as "You'll need this setting, and here's where you can find it".

Author: > Without it, it reads to me as "You'll need this setting, and here's where you can find it".

mmmm no, the objective is to remember the users that they need the ES endpoint URL configured in BOTH places (same for the CA certificate). We are not telling the users from where to obtain the info (except for the service-token).

And actually, the ES outuput in Fleet UI will appear by default with an "invalid" URL like `http://localhost:9200`, and the CA information will be empty.

What I try to remind the users (maybe too many times) is that both the CA and the URL need to be added in two different places.

But it's true that this isn't intuitive in the current doc text.... what about this?

> *{es} endpoint URL*, configured in both the {es} output associated to the policy and in the Fleet Server as an environment variable.
> *{es} CA certificate file*, configured in both the {es} output associated to the policy and in the Fleet Server.

Let me know your thoughts @kilfoyle, and thanks! ;)

Reviewer 2: Thanks for explaining Edu! I really like the the proposed text.

This seems 100% clear:

> *{es} endpoint URL*, configured in both the {es} output associated to the policy and in the Fleet Server as an environment variable.
> *{es} CA certificate file*, configured in both the {es} output associated to the policy and in the Fleet Server.

* {fleet-server} *certificate and key* (for *Production* deployment mode only).

If you followed the <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-cert-prereq>> and <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-preparations>> you should have everything ready to proceed with the {fleet-server} installation.

The suggested deployment method for the {fleet-server} consists of:

* A basic Kubernetes `Deployment` manifest that relies on two `Secrets` for its configuration.
* A `Secret` named `fleet-server-config` with the values for different environment variables.
* A `Secret` named `fleet-server-certs` with the certificate files and the {es} CA file needed for the installation.

> Adapt and change the suggested manifests and deployment strategy to your needs, ensuring you feed the {fleet-server} with the needed configuration and certificates. For example, you can customize:

Reviewer 2: Just wanna say that I love the word "feed" here. :-)

* Scheduling configuration, such as `affinity rules` or `tolerations`, if needed in your environment.
* CPU and memory resources configuration.

> * Replicas for the Deployment (defaults to 1).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Replicas for the Deployment (defaults to `1`).
```
I'd use backticks since it's a parameter value, but not a big deal either way.

* Namespace.
* Use an {es} CA fingerprint instead of a CA file.

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-install-steps]]
=== Installation Steps

. Create the `Secret` for the {fleet-server} configuration:
+
[source, shell]
------------------------------------------------------------
kubectl create secret generic fleet-server-config \
--from-literal=elastic_endpoint='YOUR_ELASTICSEARCH_HOST_URL' \ <1>
--from-literal=elastic_service_token='YOUR_SERVICE_TOKEN' \ <2>
--from-literal=fleet_policy_id='YOUR_POLICY_ID' <3>
------------------------------------------------------------
<1> The URL of your {es} host. For example `'https://monitoring-es-http.default.svc:9200'`.

> <2> The service token provided by {kib} in Fleet UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> The service token provided by {kib} in the Fleet UI.
```

    </button>
  </div>
  <div tabindex="0"
       role="tabpanel"
       id="quickstart-dep-tab"
       aria-labelledby="quickstart-dep">
++++
+
include::add-fleet-server-kubernetes-content.asciidoc[tag=quickstart-deployment]
+
++++
  </div>
  <div tabindex="0"
       role="tabpanel"
       id="production-dep-tab"
       aria-labelledby="production-dep"
       hidden="">
++++
+
include::add-fleet-server-kubernetes-content.asciidoc[tag=production-deployment]
+
++++
  </div>
</div>
++++

. Deploy the configured manifest to create and start the {fleet-server}:
+
[source, shell]
------------------------------------------------------------
kubectl apply -f fleet-server-dep.yaml
------------------------------------------------------------
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure the `Deployment` and all referenced `Secrets` are created in the same `Namespace`.
====

. Check the {fleet-server} Pod logs for errors and confirm in {kib} that the {fleet-server} agent appears as `Connected` and `Healthy` in *{kib} → Fleet*.
+
[source, shell]
------------------------------------------------------------
kubectl logs fleet-server-xxxxx
------------------------------------------------------------
+

> It could take a while until the {fleet-server} fully starts. If you left the {kib} browser window opened during <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-preparations>> it will show *Connected* in case everything goes well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can take a couple of minutes for {fleet-server} to fully start. If you left the {kib} browser window open during <<add-fleet-server-kubernetes-preparations>> it will show *Connected* when everything has gone well.
```
I'd say "a couple of minutes" just so people know how long they should wait in case Fleet Server doesn't enroll successfully, but please change if that's not the right period of time.

+

> Do not continue with the next steps if the {fleet-server} is not completely up and healthy and appears in Fleet UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do not continue with the next steps if the {fleet-server} is not completely up and healthy, and appearing in {fleet} UI.
```

. Expose the {fleet-server} to {agent}s through the *Fleet Server Host*:
+

> This may include the creation of a Kubernetes `service`, an `ingress` resource, or create DNS registers for FQDNs resolution. There are multiple ways to expose applications in Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This may include the creation of a Kubernetes `service`, an `ingress` resource, or DNS registers for FQDNs resolution. There are multiple ways to expose applications in Kubernetes.
```
`creation` and `create` are different tenses. Maybe we can just omit the second one?

+

> The following shows an example to expose the {fleet-server} with a `LoadBalancer` service, which will make the {fleet-server} available for both internal and external clients. Consider creating a `ClusterIP` instead of a `LoadBalancer` service if you only need to expose the {fleet-server} to {agent}s running in the same Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example exposes the {fleet-server} with a `LoadBalancer` service, which will make the {fleet-server} available for both internal and external clients. Consider creating a `ClusterIP` instead of a `LoadBalancer` service if you only need to expose the {fleet-server} to {agent}s running in the same Kubernetes cluster.
```

+
[source, shell]
------------------------------------------------------------
kubectl expose deployment fleet-server --name fleet-svc --type LoadBalancer --port 443 --target-port 8220
------------------------------------------------------------
+
The previous example creates a service named `fleet-svc`, listening on port `443` and forwarding the traffic to the `fleet-server` deployment's Pods on port `8220`. The listening `--port` of the service can be customized, but the `--target-port` must remain on the default port (`8220`), because it's the port used by the {fleet-server} application.
+
The URL(s) that the clients would use to access the {fleet-server} in this example could be:
+
* For {agent}s within the Kubernetes cluster: `https://fleet-svc.<namespace>.svc`.

> * For external {agent}s: access through whatever FQDN added on the DNS server pointing to the public IP of the `LoadBalancer`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For external {agent}s: access through the FQDN that was added on the DNS server pointing to the public IP of the `LoadBalancer`.
```
Just a small rephrasing.

+

> If your environment requires the {fleet-server} to be reachable through multiple hostnames / URLs, you can create multiple *Fleet Server Hosts* in *Fleet → Setting*, and create different policies for different groups of agents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your environment requires the {fleet-server} to be reachable through multiple hostnames or URLs, you can create multiple *Fleet Server Hosts* in *Fleet → Settings*, and create different policies for different groups of agents.
```

+
Remember that in *Production* mode, the *hostnames* used to access the {fleet-server} must be part of the server certificate as `x.509 Subject Alternative Names`.

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-troubleshoot]]
= Troubleshooting

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-troubleshoot-common]]
== Common Problems

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The following issues may occur when {fleet-server} settings are missing or configured incorrectly:

```
I think it would be nice to have a line introducing this section, especially since we may add more items over time.

> * {fleet-server} trying to access {es} at `localhost:9200` even if `FLEET_SERVER_ELASTICSEARCH_HOST` environment variable was properly set:
> +
> This occurs when the `output` of the policy associated to the {fleet-server} is not correctly configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* {fleet-server} is trying to access {es} at `localhost:9200` even though the `FLEET_SERVER_ELASTICSEARCH_HOST` environment variable is properly set.
+
This problem occurs when the `output` of the policy associated to the {fleet-server} is not correctly configured.
```

> * TLS certificate trust issues even when `ELASTICSEARCH_CA` environment variable is properly set during deployment:
> +
> This occurs when the `output` of the policy associated to the {fleet-server} is not correctly configured. Add the *CA certificate* or *CA trusted fingerprint* to the {es} output associated to the {fleet-server} policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TLS certificate trust issues occur even when the `ELASTICSEARCH_CA` environment variable is properly set during deployment.
+
This problem occurs when the `output` of the policy associated to the {fleet-server} is not correctly configured. Add the *CA certificate* or *CA trusted fingerprint* to the {es} output associated to the {fleet-server} policy.
```

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-troubleshoot-other]]
== Other issues

If you're unable to add a {fleet}-managed agent, click the **Agents** tab
and confirm that the agent running {fleet-server} is healthy.

[discrete]
[[add-fleet-server-kubernetes-next]]
= Next steps

Now you're ready to add {agent}s to your host systems.

> To learn how, see <<install-fleet-managed-elastic-agent>>, or <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet>> if your {agent}s will also run on Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn how, refer to <<install-fleet-managed-elastic-agent>>, or <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet>> if your {agent}s will also run on Kubernetes.
```

> When connecting {agent}s to this {fleet-server}, remember to use `--insecure` flag if the *quick start* mode was used, or to provide to the {agent}s the CA certificate associated to the {fleet-server} certificate if *production* mode was used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When connecting {agent}s to {fleet-server}, remember to use the `--insecure` flag if the *quick start* mode was used, or to provide to the {agent}s the CA certificate associated to the {fleet-server} certificate if *production* mode was used.
```
